# Week 5 Blog 

Watching the several videos on the applications and utility of open source software in the field of eduacation was very informative. While I was aware of the issues surrounding the high cost textbooks and how this limits access to knowledge for those who can't afford it, I was very suprised to see just how well the implementation of an open source system of information works to fix this problem. Furthermore, the new wave of open source eduacation tools not only serve to compete with existing textbooks, but work in conjunction with textbooks to grant additional access to question banks, video examples, and other things within apps like OpenStax that may not be possible with the existing tools. 

When discussing in class, it was clear that it is not neccesarily just eduacation, but open source software has the ability to transform a whole range of different fields, from agriculture to healthcare. As we discussed in the begining of class, open source software is derived from a much more expansive and comprehensive ideology that motivates its creation, particularly the notion that knowledge and software tools should be accesible to all people to use, modify, and share, and in doing so, the projects will only improve in quality while simultaneously spreading to help more and more people.

Although my first contributions where mostly made to wikipedia in the first couple weeks of class, I have been exploring a greater number of open source projects on GitHub, and unlike previous contribtions, I've been utilizing the Git framework within terminal for creating commits and pull requests. This alone has taken me some time to get used to, and because of this, my contributions remain mostly informational in nature, adding information and to databases rather than contributing code and issues. I do hope that my next contribution is more geared towards actually making edits and changes to the code, although that will require me to continue to search for a good project to do this for. 
