#Week 14

This week we have begun to start really getting to understand the codebase, and through communications with some leaders of the Oppia repository,  are getting assigned issues regularly, with some pull requests already made, and other hopeuflly accepted by the end of the day (Sunday). A particular topic I have begun to grasp a stronger understanding of is designing for different architectures. This is because Oppia largely is meant to run on intel based machines, and all development on ARM chips requires the utiliziation of binary translator. In particular, my focus had been on understanding how the vairous third party depencies are utilized, and to what extent do ARM users need to rely on Intel versions of dependencies in comparison to native versions. By doing so, there are several changes that have been recognized to clean up Oppias 'getting started' page. This is because when the page was first made, it was in the early stages of apples M1 chip, in which package installers such as homebrew where not configured for ARM usage without translation. Now, there is a much more comprehensive setup for ARM use with homebrew, and it was benefitial for Oppias developers support page to show these imrpovements. This not only makes it easier for developers, but could clear up some of the issues that can continually be seen in the troubleshooting page. 

Aside from these changes, we are also having lots of success looking at the more UI front in regards to issues. This includes certain layout problems and object obfuscation that we have begun fixing. Having multiple different operating systems amongst our team has also greatly expanded the number of issues that we are able to explore, as in a large majority of these cases, the issues seem native to only one operating system.
