---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

Not having used Git and GitHub in a group project such as this in the past, I felt it was a very useful introduction and posed new ideas and challenges that I had not previously considered. For one, I began to realize the need for proper communication. This is because while version control allows for a clearly laid out history of the work your group has done, it still neccesitates that you work with your group to ensure that no two people work on the same thing. While this ultimately was not an issue for us, I could see problems emerging with two people spending significant amounts of time working on the same issue independently, only for one of them to have their work go completely unused. What suprised me was that a big source of the communication came from the actual pull requests themselves: That is to say that when someone finished whatever section of code/other parts of the problem they where working on, they could write a somewhat detailed summary of the work that is done and the work/issues that are left.

In regards to new skills I learned, using HTML and JavaScript was almost entirely new to me, although I found learning the syntax easier than getting fully comfortable with the git vcs. For my own contribution to the group, I primarily did the scripting to the timer element of our extension, creating the handful of methods that are called when the users interact with the on-screen buttons (Being start and stop). Having never worked on a web extension before, it was very interesting to see what it requires in terms of code, but also in terms of documentation (at least for an extension that you wish to publish). It was also very interesting to see the other groups projects in relation to ours, in particular with regards to the various choices made such as which code of conduct and license to evoke.
