---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---

Having used git in the terminal a small number of times before this week, I felt as though I was able to not only become more familiar with the basic/most common commands, but better understand the utility it holds. Because I have used the GitHub Desktop application for a while, I've grown use to the more human oriented interface it presents when using git, but I see now the utility in being able to quickly fork, merge, etc. repositories, even soley relying on the git if you don't need the somewhat excessive number of tools and features at your disposal when using something like GitHub.

Having worked on our final project this entire week, I would say it's gone rather well, and the steady pace of work our group has been able to do throughout this week hasn't placed us behind or in a rush to finish. It is worth noting that it was really impossible for our group to get any work done (even independently) until having a preliminary meeting to discuss how the app should work, what GUI components it might need, and the best method for going about all this. After this, it was easier to work seperatly knowing we had a thorough goal laid down. For my own part, I've been working on the scripting for the extension, and while I found getting the program to run as a website to be easy, better understanding the specifications of Firefox extensions has been more of a challenge.

Other elements that have been interesting to learn during this process include choosing the proper license and code of conduct. Without proper consideration it may seem tempting to pick any generic open source/copyleft license, the matter actually requires some deal of serious deliberation on the intent of the app and how the ownership of the contributors work is to be distributed. Less specific, the code of conduct we choice (from the Creative Commons) was geared with a more overarching theme of general respect that in all likelyhood could apply to virtually any open soure software.