---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: Video Reflections + Group Update"
---

From the most general view, I was most suprised by how wide a variety the open source framework and general mindset exists within business applications. Furthermore, not only how such open source ideas are applied, but the scope of who is able to use them was suprising as well, as it is not only companies benefiting from this approach, but government agencies, academic institutions, and non-profits as well. The reasoning for all this, while multi-faceted, seems to boil down to a key element that was made apparent from the videos: being that the benefits brought by open and inner source approaches is often not simply increasing profitiability, but is rather far more oriented at benefiting the consumer by increasing their access to information, and the workers by fostering a more communal work enviornment, both in and out of software development. This is not to say that the effects of utilizing open source don't see an increase in efficency, and perhaps profitability, but as outlined in "Why should you have an Open Source Program Office?", there are tons of industries in which the focus is not on profitability, but rather oriented towards the consumer. While this is mostly applicable to the OSPO model, I think the usaage of innersource serves a similar aim. This is because unlike traditional work enviornments, there is significantly more transparancy even within the company, something which seems likely to foster more ethical and consumer facing products, rather than things that seek to usurp those principals.

For our own open source project contributions to musescore, we have begun to get assigned multiple issues that we are now working on. The biggest challenge in doing so at this point seems to be not only understanding the entire scope of the issue assigned to us, but additionally what the best way to fix it is. The ladder is particularly challenging as we not only must find a solution, but it should be as small in scope as possibel to limit its effects on other operations of the application. So far we have a pretty good idea on how one of the two issues we are currently assigned will be fixed, we are just going to test multiple times to ensure this is the best solution to gurantee the acceptance of our pull request. In addition to these, we have also managed to fix an issue without code, as the problem faced by the user was not in relation to the application itself, but rather an issue with a third party software that had certain data limitations. After explaining and quoting from the other softwares manual, the user understood and the issue now serves as a more instructional page for others with a similar problem.
