---
layout: post
title: "Week 1: The foundations of Free and Open Source Software"
---

While I always understood the concept of open source software to be rather vague in what it entails, through this weeks readings, I have a much different perspective on the term. Instead of focusing on the software element, the textbook did a good job at emphasizing the philosophical and ideological motivations that go into all open source projects, and how tracing the development of Richard Stallman's initial 1983 concept through today, it's easy to see not only how widespread this 'movement' has become, but moreso how refined and brilliantly executed the larger open source framework has continued to evolve into.

Even though I knew of and utilized many open source projects, I'm suprised to continue to learn of more and more things in which I use often that are completely open source. On a day to day basis, Wikipedia have served as tremendously valuable educational tools, allowing for quick (if not mostly preliminary) background information on virtually every conceivable topic with references to more in depth readings, with all of such articles relating to each other through a vast series of hyperlinks. Particularly in reference to hyperlinking, I find it incredibly interesting how it allows for a sort of 'exponential contribution' when someone writes a new article; not only are they benefiting the community by adding an additional article, but are now in turn altering countless additional pre-existing articles by creating another link within the Wikipedia network. 

While I good list countless examples of code libraries, one that is particularly useful for my work is Librosa. This Python package has countless invaluable tools for audio and music, particularly in the realm of signal processing and MIR. Not only has it been a valuable asset to me, but even in the time I have used it, I have witnessed firsthand how quickly it developes and advances, as more and more users contribute.

A third example of an open source project I both admire and use is a full fledged application for audio analysis called 'Audacity'. This is the project that I would say has most interested me in the field of open source software development. This is because the applicataion seeks to be as pragmatic and feature-rich as possible, being not only usable as a tool for advanced audio signal analysis/manipulation, but a much simpler audio recorder, or even as an eduacational tool. This proect is what ultimately made me realize the utility in branching the 'use cases' of a software out as wide as possible, allowing for entire swaths of people to use it (even though the project may not had that audience in mind).

The final open source project that I use often is the Swift programming language. While there are certainly other examples of programming languages to choose from, having used Swift for a long period of time, I've grown fond of the workflow and readability of the syntax. What's more is that the changes implemented into the language always seem to follow the demand of its user base, and seldom feels outdated or behind.