---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---
While I think that having a strong code of conduct is essential in large open source projects, having looked over a multitude of different projects in class, it was clear that there is a very straightforwards formulation to how these are created, and if they are not direct adaptations of the Contributor Covenants CoC, they all seem to try to get across very similar points around the concepts of respect, communication, general expected behavior, and the punishments for violating such rules with trivial variations. This is not to say that the content of all code of conducts are the same, but it is clear from reading many that they all are just alternative means of establishing a similar sense of ground rules to ensure the project functions as optimally as possible.

Although this is all well and good, there is of course the fact that a large percent of users and contributors do not read this code of conduct, as in all fairness a good deal of the points are rather self-evident. This is the reason why I mentioned above that they are mainly essential just for large open source projects that requires more hard and concrete rules, whereas with smaller projects among peers the code of conduct becomes increasingly more arbitrary, an example of which being the project headed by one of my professors, Librosa, where a significant percentage of the contributors know eachother. While it might not be needed at all in such an example, I think the utility of the Contributor Covenant is it can be simply copy pasted without much regard due to its lack of neccesity (but still not being a bad thing to have in the documentation).

Given that there is some formulation of a heirarchy in a majority of open source projects (BDFL, etc...), having clearly defined rules and punishments grants some additional legitamcy to that authority, and prevents the heads of open source projects from handing out bans unfairly. 

In short, the code of conduct is a rather boring, if not in many cases arbitrary, piece of documentation in a lot of open source projects, but the ease in which one can add the pre-written Contrubtor Covenenant CoC, there is no reason not to include it, and when it does become neccesary to use (say for bans, etc.), it is much better to have it and not need it then need it and not have it.

Go into /_posts/ and update the 2022-02-06-week02.md file.
